i hope you guys enjoyed the episode
brought to you by our sponsor blinkist
go to blinkist.com impact theory to get
off a blinkist premium membership and a
7-day free trial
all right enjoy the episode hey
everybody
welcome to another episode of impact
theory on today's episode we are joined
by arguably
the most interesting woman in the world
entrepreneur activist and endurance
athlete sarah rob o'hagan
sarah spent the majority of her twenties
with the constant fear of being fired
and relentlessly
fighting to find her own lane after a
string of crushing failures she went on
to become the global president of a 5
billion company where she led its
successful reinvention
get ready to have your mind blown by one
of forbes most powerful women in sports
sarah rob o'hagan
[Music]
[Applause]
how are you very good thank you wow
absolutely overwhelming it's awesome to
be here
man doing this research was really
interesting
seeing how much fun you have yeah it's
really surprising because you think like
as people become more and more aware of
what women especially have to do to
really climb the ladder you think of
them as
really taking on sort of aggressive
traditional male tactics
yeah but you're also fun and funny and
laugh till you snort
which is one of you it may happen today
yeah i'm very open to that
so that's that's pretty incredible now i
wore this shirt in your honor
which toughen the [__] up buttercup yes
let's go yeah i was really i love that
i do that i love how you answered every
question about what people have to do to
succeed with
basically you've gotta shine you've
gotta outwork people you've gotta bust
ass
and is it true that in um new zealand
that like one of the biggest
insults you can say is you're
half-assing it oh for sure like that
means you're a [__] like not bringing
it right
and that means like you're not even like
contributing to the team let alone doing
the best that you can do
so for sure that's not cool i love that
and you said something in the book it
was like
you have to like have an honest
assessment of like your assness level
[Laughter]
all right i actually you mentioned adam
grant adam
partnered with me and we created a quiz
that is now on my website
which measures your assness level are
you kicking ass
are you half ass or you like totally not
asking at all and it's
awesome like we've gotten it down to
psychological rigor what are some of the
questions
it's really interesting like i um having
wrote my blog as you know um where i
basically studied
some of the world's most successful
people through a very broad range of
um walks of life and career so you know
i'm talking body miller who's a downhill
skier mr cartoon the tattoo artist
condoleezza rice
kind of successful right and i
interviewed these people and then
said how do i figure out the common
threads of what made them
essentially achieve their potential
which i know what you believe in
and adam grant was really helpful in
guiding me to the
psychological underpinnings of what they
were doing and
really it came down to some pretty like
systematic behaviors that they all had
which is what we tried to capture in
this quiz so that it were things like
um openness to new experience you know
people who
are too scared to try something out of
their comfort zone generally don't get
to the next level
of their own potential humility was a
huge one you know like the willingness
to say
i don't know the answers i'm gonna ask
for help
um personal drive you know like just
being willing to push yourself
so you know there was there was
definitely some just
obvious behaviors that they all had and
that's how we figured it out
like what is the definition of kicking
ass it's basically putting all these
behaviors together
that's interesting humility was one of
the things that comes up in your talks
and in the book that i thought was
really really interesting and
you talked about how so going through
the uh
career um canyon of despair
i love that or the canyon of career
despair i thought wow that's
and as you were going through that that
you got your ass handed to you so
roughly that you were like i'm now going
into the nike job with
with real humility totally but you said
then looking back on that that may have
been part of the reason why you
succeeded so
why is that how did that play out yeah
so i don't know if it's just
a standard part of growing up right but
i certainly in my
20s you know i had a few experiences
where i broke through and had some early
successes right so one
being you know i'm 26 years old i'm
partying at the khan film festival with
richard branson i mean
like that's kind of amazing for someone
who came from a country of
50 million sheep let's just start there
right and
so i'm thinking i got this i'm like the
[__] like i can't do any wrong and then
i turn
up to a new job at virgin mega stores
which i don't know if any of the
audience knows that we used to buy music
on things that went round around
you know in a retailer as well
and i show up at the time actually that
napster had just come along so the whole
industry is being disrupted but i just
thought
i could do no wrong because i had had
done so well
at virgin atlantic the airline and there
was just a cockiness and an arrogance
that just got
ahead of me right and so that was one of
the reasons i
ultimately ended up getting fired and to
your point it wasn't until
i'd had my ass handed to me a couple of
times that i realized
this is not working and then it's almost
like you just get
such a dose of like when i started at
nike i was like i just don't want to get
fired so i will do
anything to help and support and listen
and learn and
truly like that is what i think made me
successful there because i
was a sponge like taking it all in and
recognizing that there was a hell of a
lot more that i needed to learn to be
good
you've got such a cool perspective
because you're actively
uh running businesses and have been for
a very long time so as you're writing
this stuff
it's i'm thinking okay well how how do
you teach that to your culture
what do you what have you learned to
look for like in in
interviewing what do you train your hr
team to
look for and do you have like
qualifications like we look for these
things
yeah what does that process look like
for you now it's a great question and
it's something i mean in my current job
i'm
ceo of flywheel which is an indoor
boutique cycling company and
you know so we're a relatively small
company and we're a young company which
i love
young company in terms of seven years
old but young in terms of our employee
base
and so we're at right now at that point
of
how do we start to get more systematic
because
we i think in the early days because our
culture was built on one of
just performance in general because our
proposition is an athletic
performance fitness experience we
attracted people who were attracted to
that so we just kind of did it naturally
once you start to scale up you actually
have to do what you just said which is
how do we more systematically make sure
we're looking for these right behaviors
and
i'm just such a big believer i could
give a [__] about educational
qualifications
if you don't have the right set of
behaviors and
sort of humility and team work
capability to to play well on a team you
know
how do you so just having gone through
this so at quest we ended up scaling up
to we had 1400 employees by the time
that i left and it was absolute madness
and when i was hiring one-on-one i
thought i
got it right because you can look in
their eye you can spend time with them
you can ask them crazy questions most
importantly you can follow them down a
path they say something you see a micro
expression
you can chase it down i was good at that
once it was
now my hr team has to go and try
to do that same thing then it was like i
realized
i'm only as good as what i write down
yeah because now it's trainable it's
teachable it's pass on the
goal yep what are the things that you
write down or if you haven't already
what what do you think are some of the
core things you're going to
need to instill in the hr team to make
sure that they hire right
actually this goes back to how you
opened this entire discussion it was
funny i'd never thought about the point
you said of like
you know the further up your career you
probably become a little stiffer a bit
more
uh what's the word i'm looking for like
held back whereas
i seem to have gone completely the other
way around because i think
i've learned along the way that when you
are trying to be something you're not
that's when you lose your confidence and
so i've almost gone this completely
other way to
here it is f-bombs and all and if i [__]
up like
come on team let's be honest about it
tell me you know and
so i think as part of that and i think
as a leader
particularly in the world we live in
today it's it's up to you
to consistently express what matters to
you in terms of your value so you know
i'm
making a lot of effort with my blog
posts and whatever to really
point the whole time to the examples of
those
values that matter to me that also
matter to our leadership team and
you know they are a lot to do with sort
of
commitment to the team resilience you
know willingness to take risks but
push through to the other side when
things are not going well
and i have to write about them but i
also have to demonstrate them i think
that's the other big thing
on a daily basis like i'm very conscious
in meetings of
when i've walked out the door did i
leave the impression that it's okay to
make mistakes and if i didn't i better
circle back around and make sure
i articulated that yeah i uh
i love that and that opportunity that
you have as a leader
to really live it and let people see it
like that was so important to me so at
quest i had created the
25 bullet points that it was a belief
system
right so and i remember it came out if
we were trying to create a
like a traditional value system um and
you know most companies have them and
it's like a sentence or two of what we
stand for and i just couldn't do it
it all felt so trite like i was really
trying but then i was like this isn't
gonna help somebody like
reading it you sort of get a pr message
of what we're about
so i sat down and literally like in one
pass just wrote what were the 25 things
i had to do
to my mind to go from feeling like a
trapped employee who was
trying to keep his head down do as
little work as possible and avoid
punishment at all costs
to like really like you discovered being
myself
bringing something unique to the table
that i can actually trust my instincts
and so once i wrote those 25 i thought
whoa like this is really it if people
took this and did it we'd be golden
yeah but my fear was that they'd
memorize it and not do it yes
and so what you're talking about so
fascinating to me
of how do you show grit yeah
how do you show that it's okay to make a
mistake and
to that end what happened when you met
angela duckworth the queen of grete
it's a great question i love her
obviously um
and it's speaking of grit when i was
writing
my book i did become a stalker of the
people that i knew needed to be in my
book
and lily duckworth and i was like i'm
just gonna keep going and i'm not gonna
take no for an answer um but it was
what i loved about angela was you know
she'd written
a book on you know passion and
perseverance and what grit
is but i wanted to speak to her
specifically okay tell me about you the
leader
and how does this come to life in your
own day-to-day life and
she dropped pearls like you can't
believe but the one that really stuck
with me
was she said when i think about my
employees
there's not one of them that would come
to work and say
i turned in a piece of work and it was
good enough for angela like
she's like there's without a doubt i am
pushing i want more i want more
she said and there's not one of them
that wouldn't know
that 24 hours a day i've got their back
and i was like i had chills just hearing
that i was like that's it like as
leaders
it's our job to to push
and to to make sure we're saying just
when you think your limit is here we can
push you a little bit further
but you have to know we're in it with
you you know because i think it's the
two sides that go well together
that's what i learned from angela anyway
and how do you how do you find people
that you can push that hard
or what qualities do those people have
to have
to be pushed that hard yeah it's a good
question i mean i do think
resilience like grit is the biggest one
and that's what i
that is one of the behaviors actually
that i um studied
when i was writing the book because it's
really interesting to me
the difference between people who come
up against an obstacle and just get
stopped by it
and those who just go well it there's no
reason why i can't get through it and
so to me like that's one of the things i
really push when i'm interviewing
you know new employees i bet you went
through this too where
this day and age like kids coming out of
college have been
so scripted as to what they're going to
say in an interview
here's my perfectly packaged failure
here's my perfect you know what i mean
and so i always go okay get through it
okay now tell me the next one okay
and now the next one and now the most
epic fail in your life like and then
they're just like
but that's where you get down to the
levels of where was the real resilience
like is this a marketing story of what
you did
or what did you learn in adversity and
what did you dive deep and find inside
yourself and how did you push through it
i love that because anybody that's read
your book knows that you
have your own tale of that where you got
fired
tried to make it everybody else's fault
you finally realized that's not right
totally right i have to own it and so
then you started going to
interviews and saying i'm just gonna
tell you why i got fired
so that you know i've learned yes right
yes walk us through that like
yes what gave you the courage to do that
and what was the result so it's funny i
obviously publicly go everywhere and
talking about the sarah gets fired
stories because i don't think
leaders of my level do this enough and
all of us have had embarrassing
screw-ups along the way right
and it is amazing to me how every time i
give a talk
there'll be the line of three people at
the end who come up and say i just got
fired i've lost myself i don't know what
to do i'm terrified
like it is a really really tough
experience and
i always use that story of like the
obvious question they all say is
what the hell do i say in my next
interview
and i learned it the hard way from
sitting in these interviews
trying to dodge the question and trying
to go oh well it was a
company downsizing you know
and it's not until you know because you
realize when you're doing that the
person looking at you
is just like they don't believe you and
so you're like okay
that's because i don't believe me and
and as soon as you just say hey
this is embarrassing i don't know how to
say any other way but here's what
happened
your vulnerability in that moment just
makes that other person
suddenly want to to almost help and care
for you i think
and which leads to a much more open
conversation and
it's it's very hard to do particularly
when you've just been through it because
you're at that weakest point where you
feel like
god am i ever going to get a job again
but it it's
i always tell people just try it even in
the most tiny way take a step forward to
acknowledging what you did and what when
what happened because the minute you
acknowledge what you did
you have control over changing that it's
really interesting so
one of the most powerful there's a few
movements in your book that i think
really add up to something strong and
one of them is to have that
vulnerability to really own it but then
the other one is that as you
begin that process the danger of okay i
just had a fail
the danger is that you're gonna now try
to fit into the box the next time but
that you actually put yourself into a
weaker and weaker position
yeah um you touched on it a minute ago
but take us a little bit deeper into
what you mean by stepping out of line
yeah um
and how how do people balance like the
the two moments that you've had where
you were winning but you became arrogant
and then later you realized i can be me
and humble at the same time how do they
cultivate that yeah it's a great
question
i mean so going back to
stepping out of line like where that
whole idea came from
is is i do think culturally
you know a lot has been written about
the millennials and the
entitlement whatever and i kind of call
[__] on that and i more say this is
a generation that was raised with a very
different parenting style to
probably what you and i were like where
i grew up
certainly it was you know finn for you
so i was the youngest of
four and i was like i don't think my
parents ever came and watched me play
sport let alone acknowledge a
participation trophy
um yet we then had this next generation
where
there was psychological belief that you
would build self-esteem by really
protecting
people from the things that could go
wrong and i think the
output of that was people didn't step
out of line because it's kind of like i
have to follow the perfect path and
everything is going to be fine and
so i really wanted to delve into this
and
going back to adam grant he helped me
with some of the research around
there's there's moments in your career
that are those clutch moments where
there's an opportunity in front of you
that no one else
is stepping up and taking that you can
step
up take advantage of an opportunity that
no no one else is seeing because you
have a certain set of experiences and
skills
now it's the people that try and clutch
at something that
aren't experienced enough yet that get
and the whole team gets annoyed with
them because it's kind of like
whatever you're just trying to take the
credit which is very different to
you can bring a value to the team
because of
what you already know and you can move
the ball forward
and it's funny because i often hear from
people they'll say to me that you know
take today's college graduate if i've
heard it once i've heard 500 times this
is the hardest environment to get jobs
it's so competitive
and i'm like talk to your grandparents
who graduate in the recession of like
1930. you know this is not hard compared
to other eras
it's just that no one's given you the
skill sets to recognize how to
make it happen for yourself to to
overcome that hurdle
so you go to a job interview and you get
told your resume's not good enough
okay how are you going to go back in
there with a reason why how are you
going to
take some value to them and say here's
what i can do for you you know it's like
reframe it what i love is these are not
empty words for you so you had a story
where
um oh this was back at uh new zealand
yes right where you weren't selected yes
and you were like
whoa whoa i don't think you guys
understand yes no it's funny i
looking back i didn't realize what a
pivotal story it was in my life when it
happened but this is i graduated college
and i came out when it was you know a
very
tough time in the economy and you know
there was way too many graduates coming
out for the number of jobs available
and so we would all um apply for the big
companies and they would make you
take these tests you know like
intelligence tests or whatever
and i remember taking the test and i did
the same set of tests for mobile oil
company and air new zealand so mobile i
crushed it and they offered me a job
can you imagine me working in the oil
business like can we just go there uh
in new zealand i take the same set of
tests i just had a bad day and i
[__] them up like completely and i
knew i had and i get home that night i
was like
[__] i really wanted to work there not
just a little bit like
my whole dream was like i come from this
tiny country i need to work for the
airline it will fly me somewhere that
was my whole life
and i was like i can't let this
opportunity go and
so i get the letter saying we used to
when we were kids we used to call them
pfo letters when you got to reject
please [__] off letters
it was very well known amongst the
college crowd
and i was like i can't accept this i've
but
if you just go back and sort of whine
and complain to the you were unfair on
me that's going to get you nowhere so
instead
i went back to this the woman who was
the hiring manager
and i actually created a whole set of
thoughts and ideas
that i would like to bring to the
airline so i'm bringing value as opposed
to
going in and saying this isn't fair and
i think you know
i was a stalker a little bit too let's
be honest but she ended up
saying okay i'm going to give you a half
hour with
the actual line manager it's your type
if you can prove to him
you know where you go long story short
the guy hires me this they were meant to
have six graduate trainees he creates an
extra job for me which
in any corporate america that never
happens i mean how do you get to do that
and what that ended up doing is the
whole sort of
storyline of me stepping out of line him
taking a bet on me
caused me to work 500 times harder than
anyone else because i needed to prove
that my
seat was worthy you know and that in
itself i think is a good motivator for
success
i love that and there's another and i re
everybody
lean in right now because this you want
to pay attention to because this is
actually how you get ahead
you it's okay because you've done it um
you do this again where you go you show
up at virgin
you think you have a job the guy that
hired you now isn't there anymore
doesn't say a word by the way you've
been planning for months you move
you show up and walk so i moved to new
york
put all my credit cards fully maxed out
the little kiwi i don't know anyone in
new york
and i move into a non-air conditioned
apartment which was very bad
because it was cheap and it was like
august i'm like oh my god i'm like
sweating my ass off
i turn up to the office at virgin on the
first day i walk in and say
to the front desk and i ask for the name
of the person who'd hired me
and the lady behind the dish says she
doesn't work here anymore
i'm like wait what
[Laughter]
literally she goes i don't know who you
are but yeah she doesn't work and i
walked into the bathroom and just bawled
i was like oh my god
i've like put all my life on hold for
this job and
and then i come back out and i go back
up to the desk and i said well she may
not work here but
i have a piece of paper that says i have
a job and so
find me someone in hr so eventually the
hr person like puts me in a little cube
in the corner
and the whole the person who'd hired me
actually had been let go from the
company
which is even worse even better and so i
was like oh god like if anyone's about
to get fired it's going to be the person
she hired
so i sit in the corner and at first i
was like this is really bad they're
going to get rid of me
and that was when i was like i have no
choice but i've got to move quickly to
prove that
i have value i can add here and long
story short i
spent a weekend with no sleep writing a
marketing plan for the airline an
organizational structure and i
put it in an envelope and slipped it
under the president's door i still can't
believe i did that when i think about it
and i was like he's either going to
think i'm a cocky
you know don't deserve any opportunity
or
he's going to see that i have value to
add and i'll do anything to
you know to hold on and be here and of
course
the latter happened i ended up not only
getting to do all the work but i
actually got a promotion out of it which
is
incredible and it's just a good story of
don't
ever worry that like someone didn't ask
you to do something just get on and do
it it's like when people say to me
you know i want to get a promotion well
go bring more business into your company
then because guess what you'll get
rewarded pretty quickly
yeah one thing that i i love about that
and you've talked about a lot in your
book is
don't try to please me as a ceo right
like yes please don't try to please me
because what i actually want is for you
to help the business yes
yes so one what do you mean by that
exactly and then two for anybody
watching now that really wants to
supercharge their career how do they
put that into action this is a great one
and because i actually think
this applies a little bit more to people
mid-career and particularly because when
you get to mid-career maybe your late
30s
40s you got more on the line you might
have you know kids you've got a lot that
that is resting on you and i think
that's when people get more fearful and
um i certainly observe when i was
working at gatorade and it was a massive
turnaround and it was
you know in the recession and like it
was a very stressful time that
initially we would go to meetings and
people would keep saying to me well you
need to present it this way because
that's what indra the ceo of the company
is looking for
but that would have required presenting
information that wasn't going to
successfully turn the business around
because
it was what they'd done before and it
suddenly occurred to me like why are we
trying to please the boss she wants us
to succeed she doesn't give a [__]
we do it the way she expects us to i
really believe
when i say don't come and please me i
say
to employees all the time i believe when
they have their own
kind of ideas of how to solve a problem
they will fight so much harder for those
ideas
than if i try and say i think you should
do it that way
yeah that's critical and that ties into
your notion of the mountain's got to be
yours
yeah what do you mean by that what is
sir edmund
who's a fascinating character by the way
for sure i got very into my mountain
metaphors in the book
so edmund hillary is a kiwi and he is
was the first
man in the world to summit mount everest
and i use his quote at the beginning of
the book
it's not the summit we conquer but
ourselves and it's
beautiful the children i read in the
book
the mountain being yours in the book
you're referencing like
to have that drive to really do what you
have to do so you have to
like i want people to feel this in in
the context that you wrote it which is
man you've got to grind like if you want
to win you've got to show up to play you
call it swinging hard
right the kiwis know how to swing hard
and if you
really want to make something come true
in your life you've gotta you gotta
really really go for it and
thusly the mountain has to be yours yeah
because i think what happens
particularly with younger people
is whether it's your parents your
professor your boss like everyone else
has got an opinion on what you should do
but if it's not your dream you're not
going to fight
nearly as hard for it and i think that's
where i feel
so blessed that i had parents who
gave me the tools to you know education
like a great childhood to succeed but
then it's like you go figure out what
you want to do i never felt any pressure
to be anything do anything it was like
you go figure out
where is your mountain to climb and i
found with all of the people i
interviewed for the book that is what
stood them apart like
in every instance they had a dream that
significant influential people in their
life said it won't work you shouldn't
it's too risky but that it's what they
cared about no one else knows what's
going on inside you except you
and i think once you know that something
you really want
just clear out the obstacles and go
everyone there's no way to build an
empowering mindset or get ahead in
business without
constantly learning and accessing new
information and today i want to share
with you guys my secret weapon in the
battle to learn new things and get ahead
blinkist blinkist is for anyone who
cares about learning but doesn't have a
lot of time
blinkist takes the key ideas and
insights from over 4
000 non-fiction bestsellers in more than
27 categories
and gathers them together in 15-minute
text and audio explainers
that help you understand more about the
core ideas use the blinks to get into a
topic quickly
find new topics to grow from or figure
out which books you want to spend more
time
reading and listening to more deeply
also they've teamed up with popular
podcast creators to blink
those for you too so you can get to the
heart of a podcast episode
fast you can use blinkist's shortcast to
quickly catch up on podcast episodes
you've missed
with high quality audio you can jump
right in on the go during your commute
at the gym around the house or even
download to listen offline
15 million people are already using
blinkist to broaden their knowledge in
27 non-fiction categories including
self-improvement personal growth
management
leadership and mindfulness and happiness
two books from their library that i've
listened to
and highly recommend are start with why
by simon sinek
and the power of habit by charles duhigg
right now blinkist has a special offer
just for our audience
go to blinkist.com slash impact theory
to start your free
7-day trial and get 25
off a blinkist premium membership that's
spelled
b-l-i-n-k-i-s-t
blinkist.com impact theory to get 25
off a blinkist premium membership and a
seven day free trial
all right guys take care and be
legendary
what are you going to teach your kids
like what do you want them to take away
is
are you more lazy fair like let them
find their way are you going to
make sure they've got grit and tenacity
like
what does that look like that's a great
question i mean certainly they all have
to hand back participation trophies
do you really make like give them back
yeah that is amazing
where's that anything after three at all
period no trophy what if they win the
gym if they wouldn't that's they want it
for sure yeah no but if it was just for
showing up
no and they they always like oh yeah
that's my mom the one that makes us
um there was one once or twice where
early on where they kept the trophy and
i allowed them to if we repurposed it
for an achievement they were trying to
do themselves
i i really really believe that
it's about getting them to understand
that you
will be happy and fulfilled if you do
whatever you do in your life off your
own steam
you know i think that's for me the the
single biggest learning is like
don't look for shortcuts don't look for
people to give you handouts like go
figure it out for yourself because
that is what will make you the most
satisfied happy person that you can be
and what do you think is has been the
secret to your success
and one thing i'd love you to touch on
is you've said i never saw myself as a
a great female executive i was just the
best executive yeah
so one why how did you not fall into
that
and then two like what makes a great
executive i come from new zealand and we
many people may not know we're the first
country in the world to give women the
vote
really 30 years before the united states
wow that's amazing
and i have wondered is that why as a
woman i
grew up with a set of different cultural
guardrails because i remember coming to
america
and discovering what title nine was and
i was like why would you need something
like that like it just
never occurred to me growing up that as
a female
i couldn't do anything that i wanted to
do and
and it's it's funny i think now for
women
i i give sheryl sandberg clearly so
much credit and love for what she's done
to start this conversation on
you know what we need to do to get more
women into leadership roles
and i feel like sometimes we can
get all of the data in our way and use
that almost as a reason to not take the
step
because like there's so much incredibly
real data that says that you
you know are not going to get funded in
the same way as a guy will
you you won't you know so you've just
got to almost say
those are today's circumstances but
they're not a reason not to change and
move it forward and
you know i think for me i just have
worked in predominantly male industries
the whole way through and it just i've
never even really noticed that i was the
only
woman at the table very often i just was
like well [__] i'm here
and so i'm gonna do the best i can
and and it's up to me to outperform my
peer group whoever they are
do you have strategies for
self-improvement like are there things
that you do
yeah i mean i i think i'm more
purposeful about them
having written the book and studied
other people the way i just have and
i'm now very very focused on
getting out of my comfort zone like
pushing myself to do things that
i haven't typically done um give an
example
yeah i mean even like in the job i'm in
today
right now it's like every day you know
we have a
as i mentioned we're launching a big
startup a tech startup on the side of
our business which for me is a whole
set of experiences i've never had i mean
if i
was looking back to last year and some
of the job opportunities that came my
way
there was a lot that i could have easily
done and made a [__] ton of money that
were just kind of
keeping me in the same set of skills
whereas to take
on a smaller you know company that needs
to be scaled up with whole
like that was really quite a big
challenge for me is that an important
thing for you to reinvent yourself to
get a new skill set push yourself
out yes talk to me about that because
that's how most people get stuck there
yes because i think that maybe it's
because i
um i get very restless if i don't feel
like i'm growing and i think that is
something that i saw
was a common thread of all these people
i interviewed too is that
when you get to mastery that feeling of
um
just comfort that kind of after a while
like okay this is good but what more can
i be doing
i think up until now my career was about
the what's like
you know the what did i do at gatorade
we turned the business around what did
we do at equinox et cetera
now i'm focused so much more on the how
how do i
achieve the save results and frankly
have a more positive
impact while doing it which is
kind of pushing me out of my comfort
zone in a bigger way
let's dive into like the book book for a
second so what does it mean to be
extremely you so first of all the title
um everyone goes well to be extreme you
does that mean that you have to be
loudmouth you have to be extroverted you
know
and the answer is absolutely not to be
extreme you
is to be the extreme of your personal
set of passions skills idiosyncrasies
behaviors right
so i always tell people it starts with
what blows your hair back when you get
up in the morning like what makes you go
i [__] gotta do this like what really
excites you
combine that with what are your natural
skill sets
style etc like as you can tell i'm very
extroverted i love
people like i wouldn't do well if i was
in a job or a role that
you know was in a box without people
that i could interact with what are
those things that you know about
yourself
and then the extreme part is once you've
sort of understood that
is the kind of lifelong commitment to
keep
pushing your boat out a little bit
further like every time you get to the
top of your game
push it a little bit further what's the
next challenge you can take on
and how do you pick the people that you
yeah for the book are
so diverse i know like how did you come
up
did you come up with a list and go these
are the ones i'm going to go after did
you have a much
bigger list those are the ones you could
make contact with like what i
really wanted to do i put a lot of
thought into it being there's 25 people
in the book
the most diverse cast of characters when
i say diverse i mean
styles um country of origin
career they ended up like i just wanted
it to be something that
anyone out there could find a story that
related to them
and and i also found what was so
fascinating about doing it that way was
that you know
i would have these moments of just like
jumping up and down after i'd done an
interview
and i'm like how is it possible that
body miller
and a chef are using the exact same
language and how they do what they do
you know
it was cool tell people who bode miller
are because it once you know like if you
don't know
what he does yeah so bodhi is um
the most decorated american downhill
skier of all time and he
i have a whole chapter that he helped
inform
about pushing through failure and what i
call making failure your
fuel and his basically strategy as a
skier
was to just crash more all the other
guys
and because it made him more battle
tested and it made him push
harder on race day um and then the i
talked to sam cass who's the former
white house chef
you know i was always like you know chef
i'm sure he would have come up through a
more sort of artistic creative side he
was a former
like he wanted to be a professional
baseball player who
failed and used a bunch of skills there
to
move into the world of um being a
professional [__] like
it was amazing to me that these kind of
completely disparate
experiences led to behaviors that were
clearly
uniformly driving these people's success
and what were some of those behaviors so
definitely
like resilience as we mentioned before
um uh a willingness to just
go for it in the face of people saying
here's all the reasons why not so i'll
give you an example will dean who's the
founder of tough mudder who you must
have on this
um show sometime he's fantastic but he
gives a story i don't know if you know
if your viewers know what tough mudder
is but it's the obstacle
mud run where you get electrocuted and
you jump into dumpsters of ice cubes and
sure enough like he's now what something
like two million people have done these
things
worldwide it's crazy and it's an
extraordinary movement
but he had so many influential people in
his life tell him you are
crazy what are you doing and he just you
know had that
just clarity of vision and that this is
what i'm here to do
so you said to him makes me why did you
start a movement why so you got the book
why
actually like you actually have a
movement you have a website the whole
shebang
yes why wasn't the book enough i think
because
today um especially the way
you know younger people are wired they
want to take action they want to
participate
not to just be passively um reading and
i felt like yeah i felt i knew that the
act of all of the
research around the book would lead to
this great piece that
that people could read but they'd want
to apply it to themselves like i felt so
strongly
i didn't just want to write a book that
was a great beach read and
like a bit of inspiration i wanted to
have really practical
tools that i can go home and apply to me
myself
now and help make myself be
better at what i'm trying to trying to
do yeah i love that
you said something really really
interesting in the book let me see if i
can
get really close um if you just failed
and you've lost your confidence
good it means you're actually processing
through it and if you're going to fail
you better be better on the other side
and to do that you have to process it
yes how how do people learn to process
through that how do they not just get
stuck i have found when i go
speak particularly to college kids but
for actually people of any age like the
failure thing is a really big
scary topic for people it's bizarre to
me maybe because i've been through so
much of it that now i'm like
whatever but it is like it absolutely
paralyzes people and
i can't tell you the number of times i i
almost see the
the eyes of a college student it's like
i want to take a course
in college that's the failure course and
i've checked the box and i'm always like
i don't know how to explain to you that
until you've been
to the depths of the canyon of despair
like that's where the learning and the
growth comes from and you come back
so much stronger on the other side and
if you haven't done that
then you haven't failed then there was
no point and
it kind of i suppose it's easy for me to
say because i've had so many massive
[__] ups that you know i'm still
standing but i do feel like you get
to a point later in your career for
anyone
particularly if you you know want to be
in leadership
the stakes get higher it gets tougher
and if you
haven't been through some really shitty
times
and endured you will not have the
intestinal fortitude to handle it and
like i think about the gatorade
turnaround like for me
i realized nine months into that when i
had
wall street analysts the media everyone
basically writing articles on how badly
i was [__] up gatorade and
i realized like i remember saying to my
boss it was like
here's the deal we've either got to go
for it and go this way or you should
fire me now now i wouldn't have had the
courage to even
do that had i not been through those
earlier experiences
yeah it makes sense i am deeply
horrified that we're running out of time
so but where can these guys find you
online yeah so definitely go to
extremeu.com
um and i'm at extreme sro
on twitter at extreme sarah on facebook
and so yeah come join the conversation
for sure
awesome and i have one last question yes
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
yeah so i started touching on a little
bit in terms of
i really really want to help
the high potential young people
in this country and in the world who
because they were not
born in the right places with the right
connections to go to the right colleges
to open the right doors
don't get the same opportunities and if
there's one thing
i know about my own story it's like i
don't have an mba
i didn't go to an ivy league college but
somehow i had the right mentors and
parenting to give me the grit to get
around the system and so
if i can help other people see that
find that in themselves then to me that
would be
amazing that would be amazing sarah
thank you so much
guys i could only ever hope to give you
the very tip of a massive iceberg on
this i
really encourage you guys to read the
book watch her talk
see the interviews that she's doing take
it all in as a gestalt
and you will really understand why it
has been said about her that she doesn't
just sit at the table she stands on it
you're gonna see
the enthusiasm the passion for results
and that's the part that i want you guys
to take home i hope you've heard what
she's been saying about grit and
resilience and how you have to push
through
and how so much of this came from her
time
at the bottom of the canyon of despair
and that truly and here's the bad news
the canyon of despair it eats the souls
of many
of the weak who enter it but the people
who are brave enough to climb back
up the other side to rebuild their
confidence to actually process it
as she says those are the ones that go
on to rule the world i just gave myself
chills thinking about what you've been
saying
guys this is the truth and you know that
is my standard when i can say that
somebody's advice will make your life
better because it's real
and it is true it is the highest
compliment that i could pay them and
sarah i pay you that compliment in
spades
so guys be sure go out there engage with
her and her movement and if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
if you adopt the belief that everything
is figureoutable and you
take that on for yourself you don't need
to go hunting down all your limiting
beliefs because that one thing is like
the master key that handles
everything below it it's almost like
flipping a switch in your consciousness
where then everything else becomes
possible